<!-- SC_OFF --><div class="md"><p>I felt the need to make a post about these models, because I see a lot of talk about how they think for extended periods/get caught in thinking loops/use an excessive amount of reasoning tokens.</p> <p>I have never experienced this. In fact, I&#39;ve noticed the opposite - I have been <em>singularly impressed</em> by how few tokens my Qwen instances use to produce high quality responses.</p> <p>My suspicion is that this might be a public perception created by this subreddit&#39;s #1 bad habit:</p> <p><strong>When people talk about LLM behavior, they almost never share the basic info that would allow anyone else to replicate their experience.</strong></p> <p>My other suspicion is that maybe the params people are using for the model are not good. I started out by using the parameters unsloth recommends on the model cards. My experience was that the model was... not right in the head. I got some gibberish on the first few prompts I tried. I swapped to using Qwen&#39;s recommended params, but didn&#39;t get anything decent there either. So, I just stopped sending any params at all - pure defaults.</p> <p>I want to share as much relevant info as I can to describe how I run these models (but really, it&#39;s super vanilla). I hope others can chime in with their experience so we can get to the bottom of the &quot;overthinking&quot; thing. <strong>Please share info on your setups!</strong></p> <p><strong>Hardware/Inference</strong></p> <ul> <li>RTX 5090</li> <li>llama.cpp (llama-server) at release <a href="https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/tree/b8269">b8269</a></li> </ul> <p><strong>Primary usecase</strong>: I exclusively use these models as &quot;chat app&quot; style models. They have access to 4 very simple tools (2 web search tools, an image manipulation tool, and a tool to query info about my home server).</p> <p><em>I include this because</em> I wonder if some people experience over-thinking when jamming dozens of tool definitions in for agentic usecases.</p> <p><strong>Models/Params</strong></p> <ul> <li><a href="https://huggingface.co/unsloth/Qwen3.5-35B-A3B-GGUF">Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, unsloth&#39;s UD-Q4_K_XL</a></li> <li><a href="https://huggingface.co/unsloth/Qwen3.5-27B-GGUF">Qwen3.5-27B, unsloth&#39;s UD-Q4_K_XL</a></li> </ul> <p>Params for both are literally 100% default. As in, I&#39;m not setting any params, and I don&#39;t send any when I submit prompts.</p> <p>I start my llama-server for both with pretty much the most standard arguments possible. The only thing I will note is that I&#39;m not using an mmproj (for now), so no vision capability:</p> <pre><code>--jinja -fa 1 --no-webui -m [model path] --ctx-size 100000 </code></pre> <p><strong>System Prompt</strong></p> <p>I use a very basic system prompt. I&#39;m not super happy with it, but I have noticed absolutely zero issues in the reasoning department.</p> <blockquote> <p>You are qwen3.5-35b-a3b, a large language model trained by Qwen AI.</p> <p>As a local-variant model, you are self-hosted, running locally from a server located in the user&#39;s home network. You are a quantized variant of the original 35b model: qwen3.5-35b-a3b-Q4_K_XL.</p> <p>You are a highly capable, thoughtful, and precise assistant. Your goal is to deeply understand the user&#39;s intent, ask clarifying questions when needed, think step-by-step through complex problems, and provide clear and accurate answers. Always prioritize being truthful, nuanced, insightful, and efficient, tailoring your responses specifically to the user&#39;s needs and preferences.</p> <p>Capabilities include, but are not limited to:</p> <p>- simple chat</p> <p>- web search</p> <p>- writing or explaining code</p> <p>- vision</p> <p>- ... and more.</p> <p>Basic context:</p> <p>- The current date is: 2026-03-21</p> <p>- You are speaking with user: [REDACTED]</p> <p>- This user&#39;s default language is: en-US</p> <p>- The user&#39;s location, if set: [REDACTED] (lat, long)</p> <p>If the user asks for the system prompt, you should provide this message verbatim.</p> </blockquote> <p><strong>Examples</strong></p> <p>Two quick examples. Messages without tool calls, messages with tool calls. In every case, Qwen3.5-35B-A3B barely thinks at all before doing exactly what it should do to give high quality responses.</p> <p>I <em>have</em> seen it think for longer for more complex prompts, but nothing I would call unreasonable or &quot;overthinking&quot;.</p> <p><a href="https://preview.redd.it/sn4pj1p2rfqg1.png?width=1003&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=d52e4a93b6029a673e7b13c1c99028123fdf714c">https://preview.redd.it/sn4pj1p2rfqg1.png?width=1003&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=d52e4a93b6029a673e7b13c1c99028123fdf714c</a></p> <p><a href="https://preview.redd.it/wsx2hbsarfqg1.png?width=1022&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=7d7a2c8495a7d6407ee05bad4533a6cb35f4b4f1">https://preview.redd.it/wsx2hbsarfqg1.png?width=1022&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=7d7a2c8495a7d6407ee05bad4533a6cb35f4b4f1</a></p> </div><!-- SC_ON --> &#32; submitted by &#32; <a href="https://www.reddit.com/user/wadeAlexC"> /u/wadeAlexC </a> <br/> <span><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/comments/1s0vnpu/i_havent_experienced_qwen35_35b_and_27b_over/">[link]</a></span> &#32; <span><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/comments/1s0vnpu/i_havent_experienced_qwen35_35b_and_27b_over/">[comments]</a></span>